{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2758
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-BoldOblique;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red24\green25\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;\red39\green78\blue192;
\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12549\c12941\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c20000\c40000\c80000;
\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Wish You Were Here - Pink Floyd  
\f1\i\b \
\

\f0\i0\b0 Wikipedia (en)
\f1\i\b \
\

\f2\b0 Wish You Were Here
\f0\i0  is the ninth studio album by English {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rock_music"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 rock}} band {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pink_Floyd"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Pink Floyd}}, released on 12 September 1975 through {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvest_Records"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Harvest Records}} in the UK and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Columbia_Records"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Columbia Records}} in the US, their first for the label. Based on material Pink Floyd composed while performing in Europe, 
\f2\i Wish You Were Here
\f0\i0  was recorded over numerous sessions throughout 1975 at EMI Studios (now {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abbey_Road_Studios"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Abbey Road Studios}}) in London.\cb1 \
\cb3 The album's lyrical themes concern alienation and criticism of the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Music_industry"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 music business}}. The bulk of the album is taken up by "{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shine_On_You_Crazy_Diamond"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Shine On You Crazy Diamond}}", a nine-part tribute to founding member {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syd_Barrett"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Syd Barrett}}, who left the band seven years earlier due to his deteriorating mental health. Barrett coincidentally visited during the album's production in 1975. Like their previous release, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Dark_Side_of_the_Moon"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\i \cf4 The Dark Side of the Moon}} (1973), Pink Floyd employed studio effects and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synthesiser"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 synthesisers}} during recording. Guest singers included {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roy_Harper_(singer)"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Roy Harper}}, who provided the lead vocals on "{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Have_a_Cigar"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Have a Cigar}}", and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venetta_Fields"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Venetta Fields}}, who added backing vocals to "Shine On You Crazy Diamond". To promote the album, the band released the double A-side single "Have a Cigar" / "{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Welcome_to_the_Machine"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Welcome to the Machine}}".\cb1 \
\cb3 Upon its release, 
\f2\i Wish You Were Here
\f0\i0  received mixed reviews from critics, who found its music uninspiring and inferior to the band's previous work. It has retrospectively received critical acclaim, hailed as one of the band's finest works and one of the greatest albums of all time. It was cited by keyboardist {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Wright_(musician)"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Richard Wright}} and guitarist {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Gilmour"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 David Gilmour}} as their favourite Pink Floyd album.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa105\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \
1) Background\cf0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 During 1974, Pink Floyd sketched out three new compositions, "{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sheep_(Pink_Floyd_song)"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Raving and Drooling}}", "{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dogs_(Pink_Floyd_song)"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 You Gotta Be Crazy}}" and "{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shine_On_You_Crazy_Diamond"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Shine On You Crazy Diamond}}".\cf4 \super [nb 1][5]\cf2 \nosupersub  These songs were performed during a series of concerts in France and England, the band's first tour since 1973's {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Dark_Side_of_the_Moon"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\i \cf4 The Dark Side of the Moon}}. As Pink Floyd had never employed a publicist and kept themselves distant from the press, their relationship with the media began to sour. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nick_Mason"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Mason}} said later that a critical {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NME"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\i \cf4 NME}} review by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syd_Barrett"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Syd Barrett}} devotee {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nick_Kent"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Nick Kent}} may have had an influence in keeping the band together, as they returned to the studio in the first week of 1975.\cf4 \super [6]\cf2 \cb1 \nosupersub \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa105\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \
2) Concept\cf0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf2 \cb3 Wish You Were Here
\f0\i0  is Floyd's second album with a conceptual theme, mostly at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roger_Waters"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Roger Waters}}' direction. It reflects his feeling that the camaraderie that had served the band was, by then, largely absent.\cf4 \super [7]\cf2 \nosupersub  The album begins with a long instrumental preamble and segues into the lyrics for "Shine On You Crazy Diamond", a tribute to Syd Barrett, whose mental breakdown had forced him to leave the group seven years earlier.\cf4 \super [8]\cf2 \nosupersub  Barrett is fondly recalled with lines such as "Remember when you were young, you shone like the sun" and "You reached for the secret too soon, you cried for the moon".\cf4 \super [9]\cf2 \cb1 \nosupersub \

\f2\i \cb3 Wish You Were Here
\f0\i0  is also a critique of the music business. "Shine On" crosses seamlessly into "{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Welcome_to_the_Machine"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Welcome to the Machine}}", a song that begins with an opening door (described by Waters as a symbol of musical discovery and progress betrayed by a music industry more interested in greed and success) and ends with a party, the latter epitomising "the lack of contact and real feelings between people". Similarly, "{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Have_a_Cigar"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Have a Cigar}}" scorns record industry "fat-cats" with the lyrics repeating a stream of cliches heard by rising newcomers in the industry, and including the question "by the way, which one's Pink?" asked of the band on at least one occasion.\cf4 \super [10]\cf2 \nosupersub  The lyrics of the next song, "{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wish_You_Were_Here_(Pink_Floyd_song)"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Wish You Were Here}}", relate both to Barrett's condition and to the dichotomy of Waters' character, with greed and ambition battling with compassion and idealism.\cf4 \super [11]\cf2 \cb1 \nosupersub \
\cb3 "I had some criticisms of 
\f2\i Dark Side of the Moon
\f0\i0 \'85" noted {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Gilmour"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 David Gilmour}}. "One or two of the vehicles carrying the ideas were not as strong as the ideas that they carried. I thought we should try and work harder on marrying the idea and the vehicle that carried it, so that they both had an equal magic\'85 It's something I was personally pushing when we made 
\f2\i Wish You Were Here
\f0\i0 ."\cf4 \super [12]}